TRANS-RISK-RT3D is a MATLAB/OCTAVE tool for computing transient Tier3 human health risk assessment (HHRA) using time-varying parameters in RT3D. 

TRANS-RISK-RT3D is distributed through CC BY-NC (Attribution-NonCommercial) license: 
Users must give credit and can only use the work for non-commercial purposes.
The code was created for research purposes. We decline all kind of responsabilities for the improper use of 
this code.  The user fully endorse the results generated by the code.
 
When using the code, please cite
Authors: (will be disclosed when the manuscript is accepted) 
Title: "An integrated tool for transient Tier-3 Human Health Risk Assessment using multispecies reactive  transport models with dynamic parameter updates" 
Journal: (the manuscript is currently under review on Environmental Modeling & Software).
DOI/Year/Volume, Issue, Pages: (will be indicated when the manuscript is published).

It is assumed that the public domain software PMWIN 8 is installed in the directory C:\Simcore\PM8
https://www.simcore.com/wp/archive/ (accessed on 11 October 2025), in
other to obtain the MODFLOW-96 and RT3D executables. Although these files
can be obtained from other sources, TRANS-RISK-RT3D was tested only using the PMWIN 8 files.

The example provided in this script is based on three sequential phases. If more phases need to be
simulated, add them by defining other initial inputs (e.g., "TRANSRISKRT3D_RTC4", "tottime_4", "PT_phase4",
for phase 4; etc) and adding new phase blocks after Phase 3 (rename the variables
according to the number of phases, e.g., %% Phase 4; "if % skip_phase4~=1", 
"disp('Now computing phase 4...'); "nph=4;", etc)

When loading the zip file, 
(1) COMPUTE TRANSIENT SIMULATIONS USING MULTISPECIES REACTIVE TRANSPORT MODEL
(2) TRANSIENT HUMAN HEALTH RISK ASSESSMENT
When downloaded, the zip file must be unzipped in a folder (e.g., "C:\Users\[Windows username]\TRANSRISKNET"). The user will find the following structure

/TRANSRISKRT3D/

  ├─ project /
  
  ├─ common_functions/
  
  └─ common_data/
  
  TRANSRISKRT3D_1_rt3d.m
  
  TRANSRISKRT3D_2_risk.m

The common_functions and common_data folders contain MATLAB/OCTAVE .m scripts, functions, text files, and supporting data required for the simulations. These files are temporarily copied into the working directory, where the two main scripts are executed (TRANSRISKRT3D_1_rt3d.m for Step 1; TRANSRISKRT3D_2_risk.m for Step 2). After each step, temporary files are automatically deleted to clean up the working environment. The project_executed subfolder includes a fully executed example corresponding to the “default” scenario analyzed in the manuscript.
